you
some superheroes can move faster than
the wind the men in Apollo 10 reached a
record-breaking speed of around 25,000
miles per hour when the shuttle
re-entered the Earth's atmosphere in
1969 wouldn't we save a lot of time to
be able to move that fast but what's the
catch air is not empty elements like
oxygen and nitrogen even countless dust
particles make up the air around us when
we move past these things in the air
we're rubbing against them and creating
a lot of friction which results in heat
just like rubbing your hands together
warms them up or rubbing two sticks
together makes fire the faster objects
rub together the more heat is generated
so if we're running at 25,000 miles per
hour the heat from friction would burn
our faces off yeah
even if we somehow withstood the heat
the sand and dirt in the air would still
scrape us up with millions of tiny cuts
all happening at the same time ever seen
the front bumper or grille of a truck
and what do you think all the birds and
bugs would do to your open eyes or
exposed skin ah I'm gonna feel that
tomorrow okay so you'll wear a mask to
avoid destroying your face but what
about the people in buildings between
you and your destination it takes us
approximately 1/5 of a second to react
to what we see by the time we see what
is ahead of us and react to it time
times velocity equals distance equals
1/5 of a second times 25,000 miles per
hour equals 1 point 4 miles we would
have gone past it or through it by over
a mile were either going to kill
ourselves by crashing into the nearest
wall at super speed or worse if we're
indestructible we've essentially turned
our bodies into missiles that destroy
everything in our path so long distance
travel at 25,000 miles per hour would
leave us burning up covered in bugs and
leaves no time to react
what about short bursts to a location we
can see with no obstacles in between ok
let
say a bullet is about to hit a beautiful
damsel in distress so our heroes swoops
in at SuperSpeed grabs her and carries
her to safety
that sounds very romantic but in reality
that girl will probably suffer more
damage from the hero than the bullet if
he moved her at SuperSpeed Newton's
first law of motion deals with inertia
which is the resistance to a change in
its state of motion so an object will
continue moving or staying at the same
place unless something changes it
acceleration is the rate the velocity
changes over time when the girl at rest
velocity equals zero miles per hour
begins accelerating to reach the speed
within seconds velocity increases
rapidly to 25,000 miles per hour her
brain would crash into the side of her
skull and when she stops suddenly
velocity decreases rapidly back to zero
miles per hour her brain would crash
into the other side of her skull turning
her brain into mush the brain is too
fragile to handle the sudden movement it
so is every part of her body for that
matter remember it's not the speed that
causes the damage because the astronauts
survived Apollo 10 it's the acceleration
or sudden stop that causes our internal
organs to crash into the front of our
bodies the way we move forward in a bus
when the driver slams on the brakes what
the hero did to the girl is
mathematically the same as running her
over with a space shuttle at maximum
speed she probably died instantly at the
point of impact he's going to oh this
poor girl's family an apology and a big
fat compensation check no in possibly
face jail time doctors have to carry
liability insurance just in case they
make a mistake and hurt their patients I
wonder how much superhero insurance
policy would cost
now which superpower physics lesson will
you explore next shifting body size and
content super speed flight super
strength immortality and invisibility
you